DFRWS 2018 Challenge Details

SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Mar. 20, 2019

SCENARIO
On 17 May 2018 at 10:40, the police were alerted that an illegal drug lab was invaded and unsuccessfully set on fire. The police respond promptly, and a forensic team is on scene at 10:45, including a digital forensic specialist.

The owner the illegal drug lab, Jessie Pinkman, is nowhere to be found. Police interrogate two of Jessie Pinkman’s known associates: D. Pandana and S. Varga. Pandana and Verga admit having access to the drug lab’s WiFi network but deny any involvement in the raid. They also say that Jessie Pinkman’s had the IoT security systems installed because he feared attacks from a rival gang and that Jessie kept the alarm engaged in “Home” mode whenever he was inside the drug lab.

Within the drug lab (** see diagram) the digital forensic specialist observes some IoT devices, including an alarm system (iSmartAlarm), three cameras (QBee Camera, Nest Camera and Arlo Pro) as well as a smoke detector (Nest Protect). An Amazon Echo and a WinkHub are also present.

** Diagram of the Illegal Drug Laboratory: https://github.com/dfrws/dfrws2018-challenge/blob/master/DFRWS2018-IoT-ForensicChallengeDiagram.png

The digital forensic specialist preserves the diagnostic logs from the iSmartAlarm base station, and acquires a copy of the filesystem of the WinkHub. He also collects the iSmartAlarm and Arlo base stations to perform an in-depth analysis at the forensic laboratory.

The digital forensic specialist also notices that the a QBee Camera seems to be disabled, so he collects a sample of the network traffic.

Back at the forensic laboratory, the digital forensic specialist uses the bootloader to collect a memory image of the two base stations as well as an archive of some folder of interest of the Arlo base station.

Jessie Pinkman's Samsung Galaxy Edge S6 is found at the scene, likely dropped during the raid. The digital forensic specialist acquires a physical image of this Samsung device.

CHALLENGE QUESTIONS
The Attorney General needs answers to the following questions:

 + At what time was the illegal drug lab raided?

 + Could any of the two friends of Jessie Pinkman have been involved in the raid?
   If YES:
          - Which friend?
          - What is the confidence in such hypothesis?

+ How was the QBee camera disabled?

This DFRWS IoT Forensic Challenge aspires to motivate new approaches to forensic analysis and has four levels of participation:

	1.	Device Level Analysis: Developing methods and tools to forensically process digital traces generated by IoT devices, including on mobile devices.
	2.	Network Level Analysis: Developing methods and tools to forensically process digital traces generated by IoT devices on networks.
	3.	Correlation and Analysis: Developing methods and supporting tools that combine information from various data sources and automatically compute, visualize, or otherwise expose patterns of potential interest.
	4.	Evaluating and Expressing Conclusions: Assigning the probability of the results given two competing propositions (e.g. The prime suspect committed the offense, versus some unknown person did).


CHALLENGE DATA
Responders acquired the following data (Time Zone: UTC+2):

Physical extraction of Jessie Pinkman’s Samsung phone
 + phone
iSmartAlarm – Diagnostic logs
 + ismartalarm/diagnostic
iSmartAlarm – Memory images: 0x0000’0000 (ismart_00.img), 0x8000’0000
(ismart_80.img)
 + ismartalarm/dump
Arlo – Memory image
 + arlo/dfrws_arlo.img
Arlo – NVRAM settings
 + arlo/nvram.log
Arlo – NAND: TAR archive of the folder /tmp/media/nand
 + arlo/arlo_nand.tar.gz
WinkHub – Filesystem TAR archive
 + wink/wink.tar.gz
Amazon Echo – Extraction of cloud data obtained via CIFT
 + echo/
Network capture
 + network/dfrws_police.pcap


RULES
Contestants may enter individually, or as a team, with no restrictions.

+ Source code must be openly available under a free software license, such as those listed at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html. The author(s) retain rights to the source code.

+ Tools may incorporate third-party free software, as long as it is compatible with your license and is included with your submission. However, submissions will be judged on the contribution your own work brings to the challenge.

+ Submissions must include clear instructions for building tool(s) from source code along with all relevant dependencies.

+ DFRWS will publish the results of the Challenge, both in detailed and summary form, along with the methodology used and the source of the specific version of each tool.



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The DFRWS would like to thank Francesco Servida and Eoghan Casey at the School of Criminal Sciences at University of Lausanne for creating this Forensic Challenge in coordination with DFRWS.
